this way
I'll wait a minute.
Okay, good afternoon.
I want to thank everybody here for coming, especially Colonel Sowers, 2 staff at 3rd COSCOM, Colonel Mark Hampton, the commander of the 35th ASG, Mr. Nick Basbates, who is here from Boston, on assignment to cover the library opening for the LA Times.
And today what we're going to do is we're going to dedicate this library, or the beginnings of a library,
that we've been building over the last couple of months in order to offer an opportunity for soldiers to get books, and ultimately as an opportunity to get books into the hands of Iraqis.
And what I'd like to do first is that that's something I want to read, which in The Mayhem, I said what I thought I wanted to read.
What did you put in there?
Oh, I thought it was right there.
What I'll do is, I think I can probably tell this anecdote actually from memory.
When I got here to Iraq, I hadn't been here very long, and Colonel Sowers made a comment when I went to a staff call, and she said, you always have a book in your hand.
And this is true.
I'm a bit of a book nut.
And the book was Imperial Grunts by Robert Capel.
And what he talked about in his story, it's a great book about the modern American army, everything we're doing.
And he's telling a little anecdote about special forces.
And they're out at some god-awful remote outpost in Afghanistan.
And the soldiers are sitting around.
And they don't have internet.
And they don't have television.
They don't have radio.
But they had a book.
And they were reading aloud to each other, Lonesome Duck by Larry McMurtry, which I think is an incredible testament to what books can do for soldiers, for all of us.
In 1990 and 91, I was in the Gulf War.
And it just so happens that one of the books that I had sent to me then was the book Blows and Dove by Larry McMurtry.
And that's where I read it.
I read it in the desert.
And so I've always associated.
And when I read that anecdote by Mr. Kaplan just here a couple of months ago, I thought, I mean, that's perfect.
That's exactly what I think we're all about.
So with that as kind of an introduction, what I'd like to do first is introduce you to Mr. Nicholas Bazbaines.
was a public affairs officer in the Navy.
But I hope you don't hold that against him.
The fact that he was in the Navy and the fact that he was a public affairs officer.
And in the process of trying to figure out how to build a library here on the lot in a place where soldiers get books, I went out on the internet and I sent out 1,000 questions to everybody I could think of that could help me figure out how to do this, because I don't have any training as a librarian.
And I had read some of his books.
In fact, I'd read all his books except for two.
And I know that if anybody knows about books and could help me answer some technical questions, he was probably the guy.
And better than my law of streams, he not only answered the email, after a couple of exchanges, he said, why don't I come to Iraq and take a look at your library, and I can talk to you about it.
And he has other interests in Iraq.
He's never gotten to come here, and I don't want to steal the thunder.
But I thought that'd be pretty cool if we could work that out.
And he gave me quite a bit of good technical guidance on kind of how to get this thing off the ground.
So I'm really extremely appreciative to have him here today.
And I'll also note that behind him on the table here, he has provided two copies of books, and he's mailing us additional ones that are donator copies for this library dedicated to us here.
There are also three other books by Dr. Anna Rosemus, who is in Passau Germany right now with the veterans who donated all the books that are in this library.
And the last thing I'll say before Nick comes up is this is one-third of the books that we know are already on the way here.
We have a lot of books coming.
This is about 3,000 books in these three rooms.
And we have at least 6,000 more books already coming.
And there's probably going to be a point where we've got to say too much is not necessarily good.
So Nick, if I can ask you to come up.
Thank you, Brian, for the wonderful introduction.
And thank you for inviting me to come to Iraq and to be with you and to celebrate this.
just magnificent occasion.
I think probably the greatest surprise is when I accepted the invitation to travel 6,000 miles and come here.
Well, I'm a sucker for a great story and for a great book story and a great news story, and this to me is just an extraordinary opportunity for me to come and do what I've written so far, five books about, which is celebrations of books, book people, book culture, libraries,
And I've never really been at the founding.
I've written about bibliomaniacs.
I wrote a book called The Gentle Madness, which is over there, which is about 2,500 years of people who are obsessed with getting books and in the process preserving our culture.
Brian mentioned that I had never been here before.
In my book, Patience and Fortitude, which is the second book I wrote in which I will mail to you, I couldn't really schlep all these five
these books that weigh about 12 pounds, and my baggage, it was just too heavy, but I promised that I will, the first thing I do when I get home is to mail the others.
But the book, Patience and Fortitude, no, I always have to assure people, it's not a lost Jane Austen novel.
But once I was introduced as Nick Basbanes, the author of A Gentle Madness and Pride and Prejudice, so I said, no, no, no.
It's Patience and Fortitude, which are the names, the unofficial names of the lions that stand guard in front of the New York Public Library in Manhattan.
so named during the years of the Great Depression, when Mayor Fiorello La Guardia would give a Sunday night address, and what he said, and I think the metaphor even applies to what we're going through over here, you soldiers and all of us who support you back home, and believe me, there are millions of us.
What he would say is, unfailingly, he would always terminate his remarks by saying, what we need to see us through the great ordeal which lay ahead are to exercise the twin virtues of patience and fortitude,
And so almost automatically those names became applied to these lions that stood guard at Sandgard in front of the New York Public Library.
And I thought, what a wonderful image, what a wonderful metaphor for a book about an institution which some people think has a very indefinite future.
What is the role of the library of the 21st century when you have the computer?
Does the book have a future?
Well, I certainly think so.
Colonel McNerney thinks so.
We have three colonels with us here today who undoubtedly also think so.
The troops think so.
I'll just conclude my remarks by saying two things.
When I was writing that book, Patience and Fortitude, I whined in print.
I mean, I don't like to be a whiner, but I just bemoaned the fact that here I was in Turkey.
I was visiting one of the sites of one of the great ancient libraries of Pergamum, which was the rival libraries of Alexandria, 300.
I said, here I am at Pergamum, the site of this ancient library, mindful of the fact that just one border away in Iraq is the mother of all libraries at Ashurbanipal Palace Library, which is Nineveh.
Unfortunately, I'm not going to be able to visit Nineveh during this trip, but I will be able to visit Ur tomorrow, so I'm promised, and hopefully that will take place.
was invented.
It isn't part of the world where writing was invented, where the world's first known library was established.
And here we are at this really very tenuous time in our history where we are trying to reach out to the people of Iraq through books, through a library.
That to me just resonates so much.
And when I understood that this is what you were doing here, I felt I had to come
And I'm so proud to be able to be a part of it.
I'll just conclude by quoting one remark by a Scottish historian by the name of John Hill Breton.
He was writing in the 1850s.
And he was writing about libraries.
And he said, a library cannot be constructed.
It is the growth of ages.
So when you look around and you see 3,000, 4,000, 5,000 books, no, it's not Harvard, and it's 15 million volumes.
And it's not the Library of Congress, and it's 30 million volumes.
But it's the lie that it's 3,000 on day one.
And I know Harvard never started with 3,000.
They started with 268 in 1638.
So we've got a long way to go here, but you'll get there.
And I certainly congratulate you on this remarkable occasion.
And I thank you again for inviting me to be here with you.
Thank you.
Okay, now I would like, thank you, Nick.
Thank you very much.
I now would like to introduce Colonel Hansen.
Before I do so, never mind, I'm sorry.
What I would like to do is introduce Colonel Hansen, and I think it's important to note, we would not have a place to put books if it weren't through the help of Major Chris Jackson, who works for Colonel Hansen.
Chris is not here because he's on R&R, much deserved.
But I personally want to express the thanks that
I feel toward members of your staff, sir, toward Brenda Taylor back working here in the back, Chris, all the folks here at Sergeant Edward in the library have really helped.
And not to mention, we have a book of photographs that we printed out some photos to show what this room looked like a month ago.
And you wouldn't believe this, but I can tell you, there were no bookshops.
And that also is because of Colonel Hampson's folks that we were able to find a place to put
these books to serve.
I can ask you to come up now.
Thank you.
If you were.
Thank you very much.
I want to thank everyone for being here today.
We at LSA Anaconda, as you well know now, are the fortunate recipients of this huge book collecting donation.
I mean, this was a collection of books, mainly for one part of the United States, I would say, or at least they all collected there before being sent here, and that's Chapel Hill, North Carolina.
There are a lot of hundreds, and thousands probably, veterans who have contributed and made this day possible with the first 3,000 books that are here, and again another 6,000 or 7,000 on the way.
I'd like to kind of connect the dots for the history behind today.
It stretches back into history.
But I'm going to start with Colonel McNerney.
Last year, he had the chance to attend the 61th anniversary of the end of World War II.
The veterans that attended that were many, and he had a chance to talk to a lot of those veterans, and one of those veterans was a Mr. Bob Patton.
He was a member of the 65th Infantry Division, part of Patton's Third Army, and learned a little bit in talking to many of the veterans.
He learned that right after World War II,
The GIs noticed a big void in Germany.
Remember how Hitler had burned so many of the books and all the literature.
And it was the U.S.
GIs that started, as veterans, that started a collection of new literature to share with the Germans.
And that culminated with the opening of the Bucherei Europa, or the Europe Library.
It's still there today.
So that's a piece of history, and we are really a follow-on of that history.
While Lieutenant Colonel McNerney was at that anniversary, there was a need popped up, and that was the void of books here in Iraq.
And so it was the veterans that attended that anniversary that had gone back to the United States, and over that period of time, less than a year, put together all these books and sent them our way.
That's remarkable right there.
And a lot of people back home are a part of that.
So starting with the hundreds and thousands of veterans that did the contributions, number one.
But back there in North Carolina, you have a Boy Scout troop, Troop 39, who volunteered many, many hours in pulling all that together.
You've got the Veteran of Foreign Wars there in the town or in the city, as well as the local American Legion.
And together, they all made this happen to send the first
I'd like to close, though, by saying one thing.
There are probably three things that we can take out of this as soldiers, and that is, number one, generosity.
It's always great to help a fellow soldier as well as a fellow American.
Number two, the Boy Scouts.
They got a lot out of this.
That in terms of volunteering, in terms of good citizenship, and also the old do a good turn daily type of motto.
But third is for us as Americans.
and more especially as veterans or veterans to be as soon as we finish this particular rotation.
Think of the history, 61 years after World War II, and you have veterans of World War II still giving.
And so I hope that we all as soldiers and veterans have at least 50 to 60, maybe even 70 more years left in us to give back.
Thank you.
I should add that Mr. Bayes Bayes will meet here in a couple of days.
He will be going to Passau, Germany.
Those same veterans that I met last year who are incredible people, he will meet them at the Europa Library there in Passau.
One other thing I'd like to add about that real quickly is part of what made such an impact on me last year when I talked to these guys, the last day of the Public Affairs Coverage Commission of that veteran's visit, these men that had liberated
Southeast Germany, went to concentration camps of Mauthausen and Guntherkirchen, places that Jewish and other people, the Nazis, had targeted.
And these men liberated those camps.
And they told their own testimonies and have pictures and have expressed the history of what they did.
Last year, they reenacted the liberation of Mauthausen, walked back up the road in their uniform for World War II, opened the gates, and there inside the gate,
were some of the people that they had liberated 61 years ago.
Absolutely incredible.
Public Affairs guys like to talk about good stories, but you can't put a value on that.
But lastly, I would like to introduce my boss, Colonel Sowers.
And I will tell you, she's chief staff of the third COSCOM.
I would tell you that we can't do things like this without the support of the chain of command.
And I can't tell you how supportive the chain of command here is for this kind of project and everything like this.
She talks quite often about the importance of these outreach missions, the missions that the civil affairs teams do.
And all along these last couple months while I was kind of involved on this as a side mission, I kept trying to find a way to intelligently describe what we were doing, and I really didn't do a very good job of it.
It was hard for me to explain what this had to do with public affairs in COSCOM.
Hopefully that is clear today and going forth, because there's a lot more books.
What I'd like to do is introduce Colonel Sowers to also finish off the formal talking of this event, and we have some things to give out.
Ma'am?
Thank you.
I tell you, it's neat to be a part of this kind of circle of giving.
I mean, as you describe how it all kind of comes around, it's neat to be here and to be a part of the dedication of the Halbert and Red Circle Memorial Library.
And thank you all for coming.
You know, I would like to just talk about the fact that the books that have been donated here are really for two purposes.
It's got a dual-fold purpose.
And I don't know if you all are familiar with one of the singers that I've been familiar with for a long time, Amy Grant, and one of her older songs is Doubly Good.
And I think that's what kind of is happening here.
We have a doubly good event.
Not only are these books being donated by veterans to soldiers who can benefit from them, but eventually these books are going to be given to the Iraqis in a couple of years, specifically to the folks in Balad.
And all that's in them and the world of ideas that's in them will be given to the Iraqis.
And it will be sort of that continuing cycle of giving and of growing that we've been talking about today.
You know, here I am preaching to the choir because the books that are here really do appreciate books and really do understand why this is an important event.
But I guess if I could summarize it in a small way, I would say for the soldiers that are going to benefit from it first.
You know, I kind of look at life as sort of a spectrum of things.
Like sometimes we're in the execution phase of our lives.
where things that we've done in the past and experiences that we've had all kind of come together and we're able to execute and make something happen.
And we were there and prepared at just the right time to use those skills.
And I think many of us here in Iraq feel like this is the time.
You know, that I've had this job and this job and this job and it has perfectly prepared me to execute.
And sometimes in our lives, I feel like we're in preparation phase.
And sometimes we don't understand why we have
certain tasks or jobs that we have but we see them later on that they really were important to what we needed to do and I think these books sort of will make that wholeness connection for soldiers because they soldiers here really are in the execution phase they really are putting all the skills together and making things happen whether you're on staff or you're out there on the roads they are doing that but this will provide them
maybe a preparation stage at the same time they will have a portion of their life where they can come in here and find books that mean something to them and they can explore their interests or they can find interests that they didn't even know they had and the way they're kind of arranged even initially i mean you can go kind of right to where things draw you you know there's reference in there there's mysteries in there here's military history um you know there's some some religious
books over here and so whatever is kind of motivating you I mean it's available and it's a whole world of ideas and it's all you know I'm reading a book right now about imagery and meditation prayer and if I didn't have those ideas from someone else to put them down in the book I would never be able to experience that until I'm able to go after something that is important to me at the same time that I'm doing this other important job
So I am thrilled about the opportunity that these books will provide for so many of our soldiers, you know, just to open their minds and think about how incredible the capacity of our minds are.
They say that Einstein only used like 12 to 14 percent of his brain.
And this is mental fitness right in this room that's available to folks.
And so that's kind of neat.
And I think the other piece, that secondary piece, when we do donate these to the Iraqis, is that this is a gift from America to them.
And this is something that's freedom.
I mean, and you can choose from any book that you want, and it doesn't have the Al Jazeera flavor on it.
I mean, these are ideas from good to bad to right to wrong to what, you know, this is the world right in here.
And there's some Iraqis out there, and there's some soldiers out there that these books will change their lives.
Because they'll read about somebody who really motivates them.
And they'll be inspired to do things that they never would have done.
So this is kind of an important event that's happening here.
And it's neat to be a part of it.
And there's a lot of people that we owe a lot of gratitude to.
And you all have covered quite a few of them.
Do we have a couple of plaques that we want to offer?
If I can have Special Spurkson come forward.
And we're going to have you stand to the left of the Chief.
We have two plaques.
First, this is going to hand you first.
The Boy Scouts Troop-39.
All right.
Well, here is the Boy Scouts Troop-39.
And I know the Troop Master, his name, let me try and say, Jim Mackerel.
Jim Mackerel, he's a scoutmaster and he's got those scouts at Chapel Hill to do a whole bunch of boxing up and to making this, kind of taking the books and making it executable.
And Specialist Mary Ferguson went back even during the R&R leave to help these folks not only talk to the veterans, but to kind of just assure them of what the purpose was and where all these folks were going for.
First of all, I'd like to at least present this to you on behalf of the World Scout.
And then we have one more that we'd like to present to you.
Thank you.
Okay.
And this one is for Robert Patton.
And the 52th Infantry Division, and soon to be followed on by the 71st Infantry Division, but this one's specifically for them.
Robert Patton used to be the president of their association and really has been the powerhouse behind getting this initiative put together.
And so to him and to all his veterans, thank you very much and I appreciate you accepting us in your honor.
The last thing we're going to do to wrap this up is I have a box.
I'm going to ask Colonel Janet Jackson, Jeanette Jackson, I'm sorry, come forward.
And if you didn't get to come to the University of Texas Banner, this is your opportunity to see this book make a long time.
And I actually asked her if she would help wrap up the ceremony, because in the other room, and after we're done, I'm going to explain how the library is organized informally.
But if you go out these doors where a lot of you came in, you'll find probably 100 boxes.
on the shelf.
Those boxes are all full of books, like this.
And what's going to happen with those boxes, those are paperbacks, is we're going to have convoys from units like Colonel Jackson's command.
She sends convoys out, those units from our posts, and they go out to the fobs that are distant.
Because we have a library here, soldiers come here and check out these books, sign them out.
These books are for keeping, and because for those soldiers that can't come here, that are remote stations,
We're going to send the books out to them and hopefully throw three or four boxes with these convoys.
And wherever those trucks go, the books will go with them.
And that's part of our gift to those soldiers.
So ma'am, I'm giving that to you on behalf of the soldiers.
Thank you very much.
I just want to say a couple of things.
And I said this to Nick and to the other commanders that were in the ring.
My first job was in a library.
And I was the oldest of eight kids.
And this is my way of escaping.
And I would read a book, and when I got into a book, nothing else was around.
And I know that my soldiers are doing the same thing because we have a very active book, kind of passing the books.
Individuals have brought us books.
And I'm sure there's other units where your family supported and sent you books.
Now it's a place, once you've read those books, that you can then donate them here because that becomes a repository that we can then pass on.
that kind of that good feeling that kind of escape for a minute or two or until you hear the failure guns going on like last night or uh we have incoming but it really provides a way for all of our soldiers sailors marines and airmen to share the experience and also to pass on that goodness that they got from their family support groups and we will be more than happy to take these out to the outline of i know my soldiers
They might go through them before they send them out there and, you know, pull out some of the favorite ones that they like too.
But we really appreciate all the hard work because you see the end result of this.
But you don't think of the hours that all of those Boy Scouts did.
How do we get it over here, the boxing, the paying for the packaging, the logistical support, which is what we do in Third Cost Tom is logistical support.
And that's the part.
We see the end result, but it took a lot of hard work and labor and labors of love without knowing what the outcome was going to be.
And so thank you, and I know Brian and the PAO spearheaded that.
So thank you, and I'm glad you accepted it.
Thank you.
In that room, we have coffee.
If there's anybody who'd like coffee, maybe too hot.
There's water.
We have enough cookies, I was told, for 200 to 300 solvers.
So there's plenty of things.
We're going to open that back door back there and get some air flowing through.
And the last thing I'd like to say, Mr. Matham is a media rep from Belod.
I'd hoped that he would come here today, that he'd be able to make it.
Because he's the contact that I have from a visit I made with the surgeon's office to Belod about a week ago.
He did not make it, but we're going to continue to follow that up nonetheless and let him see the kinds of books and figure out which one's taking these first.
So I do really want everybody to know that we have Iraqi friends
in the local community that we have a connection with.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate you being here.
And if anyone wants to check out a book, please feel free to do so.
And all you have to do is we have a sign-in log right here.
And I already have a volunteer to be the first to sign out a book.
So anytime you want to sign a book, you just sign one out and then bring it back when you're done.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This will be the first box that goes out.
Okay.
Let me show you the box.
Are you ready to roll?
You don't have to say anything.
I'm just going to ask you a question.
You don't have to speak to me.
I'm not going to make you say anything.
I'm just going to ask you a question.
Where's the book?
uh okay
So, let me, if you want to take this book out.
Okay, and who's your first name?
Stephanie, your last name?
What do you think about the library?
Yeah?
Be my guest, please.
second repeat
How long have you been here?
For several reasons, one is each one has a bridge in the place, so you get an active day for the bus.
You typically get that bridge and water down a little bit, and it's not quite as much older.
And I don't think it's a problem.
And I am concerned about it.
But we've got all over the place.
I mean, you see, we've got all over the place.
It's hard.
all right
I talked to him about curiosity.
um because
I take it this is the military history section.
And what do you like to pronounce?
And how do you think about it?
I'm not correct.
In the back.
In everything we have, I've got to look at and make sure this stuff is really good.
I think this is a good idea.
Why?
What are you going to do?
That's a special case.
Now, we've got one of the cases though.
What's with that thing?
perfect thank you
I want to
He sent a whole box of books and autographs to him.
I don't know.
i don't want to
The end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year, the end of the year,
and the people to the middle of the night, I'm sure enough.
The crisis of her life has moved in.
Her life was through a life that was about four years ago.
She was not only an honorary member, she was not a veteran.
She was not a veteran.
She was a veteran.
which is about, one of the campuses is about the library that we have.
It's only a couple of days.
We're going.
I have two books that I haven't read.
I'm just starting with one of the others, and this is one of the children's books.
Tell her what it's about, because she knows.
I asked her in a minute in about two weeks, so I said, I don't want to find anybody.
It's a great place.
Yes.
I'm hoping that it will be a period of, you know, talk about those kids.
get around trying to get out
.
I didn't have to worry about where I was going to go.
I don't know.
Is it anything like a man talking about?
I really wanted to start with all these thinking, what's your greatest feeling.
It's 10 years of thinking and I researched thoroughly.
And I talked about a lot of people.
I have a very famous author about that.
There it is.
I knew it was here.
Right here.
I gotta show you this.
I can't believe it.
This is a great anecdote.
I love it.
Here's the ending of the motion.
I'm going to have the teacher in about two minutes.
I'm not going to have the answer.
I don't think I'm going.
.
I love your remarks.
I work at PAO.
you know
Yeah.
Do you guys have a question?
Are you ready?
No.
You've got to read it.
I've got to read it.
I
Well, he gave it to you every year.
I got a school program.
I'll give you two.
I'll give you one back.
I keep one from my house.
Thank you.
How long are you going to be around?
I mean, it's not like, well, it's worth it.
Yeah, I mean, the girl is older.
There's an interesting odd stuff here.
So when you ask her to get old and that she has to be there.
There's no count of this thousand years old in the spring.
You're the same as popcorn?
Thank you.
They never know.
One third of the book.
We've got coffee, we've got money,
Yeah?
Great show, great show.
Really, uh, so much of it.
Keep kidding.
Oh, I'm going to spend a lot of time with that.
All right.
Well, they're all focused on the same thing.
uh... uh...
So we're talking here to Colonel Nielsen.
What's your first name?
Thomas.
Thomas Nielsen.
Yeah, you haven't used the middle of Newfoundland.
I'm a speedy.
Okay.
I ended up leading Des Moines.
I moved to Wichita.
I took the D.A.
Sedona position.
I left the Iowa Guard as a staff officer.
When I got down there, I transferred to the 19th kid in the U.S.
to General Bar in Des Moines.
You don't mind me.
But when they had the end of the third college town,
They were so short personnel that they went out involuntarily, cross-leveled with a whole bunch of people.
And I was one of the last teams who pulled in on a few days notice and I got thrown over there.
So, I'm a single guy, so I've got a lot of stuff to pull over here to take care of, any of that kind of... And you've seen the actual biographies?
It's not published yet.
I was the train-side commander from CampDod.
I've got a lot of Dodge Remobility.
I've found a lot of things going on here.
My book, the first book, didn't go back into the whole chapter.
Well, I was going to write about the book piece, Stephen Blumberg.
I'm the guy who wrote about that.
I'll be right back.
You want to get a couple of books?
Yeah.
So what were you doing?
Yeah, there it is.
Okay?
Here's the antidote.
I think it's a great antidote.
What do you mean?
What kind of thing?
Okay, I'm on again.
I was going to tell you, the publisher and the author, my cousin Jane Shore Myers is one of the editors of the Moines Register.
and she won the Pulitzer Prize for the Register for investigative journalism.
They used to take my stuff and write a column and they were one of my papers.
She wrote for Nancy Weedem on a rape story in 1995.
That's fabulous.
She had a lot of writing for better homes and gardens and different things.
Did you put your email address on that?
Good.
I'm in touch.
Thanks for coming back.
Again, I'm one of the supply guys here.
I'll be here through the 15th September now.
When I go home, the unit that I've launched has been reorganized on the way when I have you.
They're forming a new unit for this one from over here in June of 07.
So I won't let it go on maybe any point on Southampton.
The good news is the 16th of March and my son is a medic.
He won't be here.
He'll be in Alassane.
I'll get a chance to do it instead.
You have to.
Thank you, officer.
Yeah.
Well, I have a whole chapter on that in this new book.
Well, can we buy a copy from you, or how do we get that?
Well, you can e-mail me.
I'd like to talk to you too.
Is it coincidental that you go?
So where's home for you two?
South Dakota.
How does that happen?
How about a picture with you?
No, we don't.
As long as I'm not a razor.
So, like I'm a case disorder buddy here, just a little bit curious about that.
You're a physician?
I'm a physician and my wife's a nurse.
And us?
And what's the unit that you're in?
We're at the 3rd COSCOM.
And how long have you been here?
Well, we came here in October to Iraq and then we actually joined the COSCOM last November.
I was previously commander of a hospital in Omaha and then we transferred to this new position in the COSCOM.
And are you a career military?
You would say so, yeah.
I have 26 years of duty.
And how about yourself?
Complainted my 21st.
Wow.
I don't know if you gave me your full names of the tapes, but let me get my notebook.
All right.
Well, I'm going to do that, probably, to check over her and her books.
We have to talk to each other.
We've got about 25.
So, all different kinds of issues.
There's a lot of structural names in there.
A lot of stuff.
You have to write down your names and... How do you get a call on them?
No.
It's better to have you write it down.
That way I can... So how long did you work here for?
It'll be for one year.
So we got here in October.
We'll go back like in September.
And then we actually left our homes in July.
It takes a while to mobilize.
And it'll take you probably another year a week to probably a month after we leave her to get home.
And so home again in where?
South Dakota.
South Dakota, you said that, right?
Native to South Dakota?
Correct.
Congratulations.
Our oldest son is in Afghanistan.
Is that his name?
Yeah.
He's a young lieutenant.
He's working with the 173rd.
Fantastic.
He's leaving in just a few days from now.
Well, thank you very much for your time.
It's been a pleasure.
Thanks for coming by.
Thank you.
Thanks so much.
Yeah, we'll get a copy of your book then.
Yeah, we'll do that.
We'll read that.
That's good.
Well, thank you.
Thanks so much.
Yeah, my pleasure.
Good luck to you both.
Safe journeys.
I'm talking from Spencer Case Specialist.
How old are you, Spencer?
You told me, how do you like to be called?
Spencer?
Spencer's found since I'm always Specialist Case.
Yeah, well, for that, I'm Nick.
Of course, it's name basis.
It's fine with Nick.
You apparently were going to college, I guess.
Is that right?
Yes.
I was at the university, and I'm 20, by the way.
Okay, 20 years old.
And so you were at...
You told me last night, I wanted to tell you again, where you were going to school.
Idaho State University.
And you were studying?
Well, I wasn't, you can't really say, I couldn't really say I was studying anything, because I'm so early in school.
I have got a declared major, but really I was just doing my general classes.
I'm technically an English major, but... Are you a freshman?
Technically I am.
It's kind of weird, because I've got three semesters, so...
Your sophomore?
I guess so.
And English major, I'm kind of an English major, but I guess writing, is this something that was going to you?
Absolutely.
Writing's always been the biggest thing to have told me.
But you don't need a degree in writing to be a writer.
Okay.
And I've always loved journalism school.
Nobody learns how to be a journalist, but no IJ is a cool person to learn about doing it.
And so, uh, you can tell me about how hard you can hear it, what can your calculus work that brings to this place sometimes.
Interesting.
I actually wrote an essay.
Say again?
I actually wrote an essay about it you might want to read.
Okay.
It's called Joining the Army.
It might give you some idea.
since I understand you like to read.
But really I never saw myself in the Army at all.
I always thought of myself as a guy who likes to write a lot.
But I remember it was the summer after my high school graduation.
Which was what year?
2003.
I spent the summer down in Texas.
trying to sell bug spray.
I had never really lived away from my parents.
That was my first attempt.
And it wasn't a particularly encouraging one.
And home again is where?
Pocatello, Idaho.
So I came back and I visited the school just before the semester started, my first semester of college.
And I ran into another person who went through a Marine boot camp.
And he was all, you gotta go Marines, you gotta go Marines.
And he told me that, you know, you could be a writer in the military and that interested me.
And I got a job writing for my college newspaper.
And I guess I was probably the youngest one that ever hired for that.
But I got bored with it.
And I thought, you know, it would be interesting to develop my writing career in a different way.
And so I considered the military thing.
And I talked to a recruiter, and he kept trying to show me as a petroleum supply specialist that I'm like, it's not happening, man.
And I told him I wasn't going to sign a contract until he could guarantee me 46-foot best, which is a very rare MOS.
And he got desperate enough, and he did.
I got it, and I was lucky because there was only one slot left in the country.
So I went to basic training.
I hated basic training.
AIT was a little better.
AIT is what?
That's what they do.
It's like you go to your basic training, which is just general soldier skills.
And AIT is like where they teach you specifically your job.
And where did you go?
Fort Meade, Maryland.
Oh, yeah.
Well, that's where the information school is.
That's where I went to.
I was a graduate of the Defense Information School when I was in Fort Arizona.
Right.
So did you realize that you probably would be, or that you undoubtedly would be going on active duty?
I had no illusions about that.
It was 2004.
The war was going on.
The war had been going on for eight months when I signed the contract, so I knew there was going to be here.
You did know?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
And that didn't play any factor?
It actually encouraged me because it may sound weird because it's just so not like me.
I realized there are millions of people out there who like books and like writing and like the same things I do, but I thought I might be in danger of trapping myself into being sort of closed-minded.
Not really closed-minded, but having a very narrow range of experiences.
I decided it was early enough in my life I could change that by forcing myself to do something very out of character, like joining the military.
How long do you see yourself going with it?
I'm going to pitch for it.
My contract is until April 2012.
2012?
Yeah.
So you expect to be in uniform for the next six years?
I mean, really?
Really?
That's a long time.
I'm in the reserve.
Would you be on active duty for the next six years?
No.
I'll be in the reserve, but they can call me up basically any time within that time frame.
Last night at dinner, we were having that little go-around, and I think Ronald and the Grace began it with the books, the three books.
Do you remember the three that you mentioned?
Very well, because I had to think about it.
So go ahead.
Let's do it now while the favorite book is running.
Okay.
My number one choice was The Iceberg Sermon by Arthur Roth.
because that was a book that really, really grabbed me when I was really young.
It's been a long time since I've read it, and I should probably read it because it's still sitting on my shelf back at home.
And when you say very young, how old?
Ten.
I was ten.
We had this thing for, like, Christmas break.
The teacher had, like, a box of three books.
He handed it out to everyone, and that was the one that I got.
And I liked it, and so it was my first book.
How many readings have you given it?
Three.
Actually, three, and then there was one teacher who would read books at the class for a certain amount of time per day, and so she read it for classes.
I guess I heard it a fourth time.
And so what is it about this that...
I don't know.
It was about this 17-year-old whaler who gets abandoned in the middle of the Arctic Ocean on a piece of ice, and how he ended up surviving and making it back to Scotland.
And I liked the isolation of it.
I liked how, you know, he was
He was confronting these physical dangers, and yet there were all these mental dangers of giving up in himself, too, that the character faces.
Well, that looks good.
We'll have to check that out.
That's very interesting.
So, is it a book that you really like, or do you feel it's something that's interesting?
affected your life in any kind of way.